{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf760
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 HOMESCREEN\ulnone \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The aim of this project is to develop a patient-specific, time- and cost-effective, 3D brain model using materials that mimic the physical and mechanical properties of human brain tissue. This will aid surgeons in planning and predicting surgical outcomes with increased accuracy.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\ul BACKGROUND\ulnone \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Walter E. Dandy Neurosurgical Society is a premier forum for neurosurgical surgeons that provides education and training to surgeons on cutting-edge practices that improve patient outcomes. The president of the neurological society, Dr. Saleem Abdulrauf, is a leading neurosurgeon who has served over 100 universities around the world and currently sits as the professor and chairman of the St. Louis University Department of Neurological Surgery and as Neurosurgeon-in-Chief at the St. Louis University Hospital.\'a0As part of Dr. Abdulrauf\'92s efforts, and the efforts of his department and the greater neurological community to improve patient outcome during neurological surgery, the St. Louis Department of Neurological Surgery partnered with the St. Louis School of Engineering to begin quantifying how advanced manufacturing practices such as 3D printing will enhance the training and surgical practice for neurosurgeons. Their on-going study, which focuses on specifically undertaking the task of saving a patient experiencing a brain aneurysm,\'a0compares 3D printing against traditional training methodologies such as cadavers (human, animal), foam models, and other conventional practices.\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pMQ2gz9Z09k"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pMQ2gz9Z09k}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'97 MONEY\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
We\'92ve\'a0developed a new way to fabricate an\'a0artificial brain\'a0that mimics the real thing, even up to the point of bleeding when cut.\'a0\'a0These models are able to create highly realistic simulations for training and could soon be widely used to rehearse complex cases prior to surgery.\'a0The process entails converting images obtained from medical scans into computer generated designs and, through the assistance of 3D printing, fabricating lifelike organs that can be poked, prodded, and dissected. The process begins with images obtained from MRI, CT, or ultrasound scans into computer-assisted designs (CAD).\'a0\'a0Instead of using these designs to create rigid plastic replicas of human anatomy, which was already being done in many other places, the pair instead converted the CADs of organs into molds, or negatives, which were built using a 3D printer.\'a0\'a0In a process akin to casting a bronze statue, the molds are then injected with a hydrogel which, after freezing, assumes a solid state. The water consistency of the hydrogel is identical to that found in our bodies giving the artificial brain\'a0the same feeling as the real thing.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93I\'92ve done a lot of aneurysm operations in my career and I can confidently say that having the 3D printed model here has a very positive impact on the procedure results,\'94 stated Dr. Abdulrauf. \'93The model has helped to identify and overcome surgical challenges, like optimum access to the aneurysm or the depth and angle of the approach, before surgery begins.\'94\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\ul FUTURE\ulnone \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
With these preliminary positive results, the next move is to measure the success of 3D printed models through blind studies.\uc0\u8232 \
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Dr. Abdulrauf has proposed a two arm study with resident neurosurgeons. All of the residents will be asked to perform a procedure on a cadaver. Half of the residents will receive a 3D printed model of the cadaver\'92s brain prior to surgery while the other half will prepare for the surgery without a 3D model. The two groups will then be compared. The assessors will be blind to which group received the 3D printed model. The success of one group over the other will be measured by time undertaken during the process, absence of errors, and the ability of the groups to keep the circumference of the surgery as minimally invasive into healthy tissue as possible. From this study, Dr. Abdulrauf hopes to quantify the use of 3D printed models in pre-surgical planning.\uc0\u8232 \
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93The future of medicine is all based on measuring outcomes. The most important thing is quantifying what\'92s better for patients, and improving the lives of patients. To do that, we must know the absolute best measures we can take using the tools we have to improve their lives,\'94 explains Dr. Abdulrauf\
}